Executable Payloads
Metasploit Framework payloads
can also be exported
into various file types and formats
such as ASP, VBScript, Jar, War,
Windows DLL and EXE, and more.
For example, let’s use the msfvenom
utility to generate a
Windows Portable Executable
(or PE file) reverse shell.
We’ll use -p to set the payload,
set LHOST and LPORT to assign
the listening host and port,
-f to set the output format
(in this case exe),
and -o to specify the output file name.
The shellcode embedded in
the PE file can be encoded using
any of the many MSF encoders.
Although the encoders are primarily
designed to deal with character
limitations some encoders incidentally
bypass obsolete AV engines
The encoding is configured with
-e to specify the encoder,
and -i to set the desired number
of encoding iterations.
We can use multiple encoding iterations
to further obfuscate the binary,
which could effectively evade
rudimentary signature detection.
Another useful feature of Metasploit is
the ability to inject a payload
into an existing PE file, which may
further reduce the chances of AV detection
The injection is done with the -x flag,
specifying the file to inject into.
These payloads can be used as part of a
client side attack, as a backdoor,
or stand-alone as an easy method to get a
payload from one machine to another.
When an unsuspecting user
executes our binary,
it will operate normally
from their perspective.
Behind the scenes however, the injected
payload will attempt to connect back
to our awaiting listener.
A little known secret is that this
process can also be accomplished
from within msfconsole with
the “generate” command.
For example, we can recreate the
previous msfvenom example
by selecting our payload and
configuring the same options.
Then we’ll issue the generate command with
the same options we used before.